(hip-hop music)
In the last video,
we learned that having a function
and using the new keyword will return an object
that is an instance of that object,
meaning that pepperoni and Canadian pizzas
are both an instance of pizza,
and the way that we attach properties onto that instance
is by saying this.whatever, this.customer at this.id,
these are all instance properties,
meaning each pizza will have their own properties.
Now, when it comes to adding functionality to a class,
in our case, we're gonna look at,
maybe you might wanna do something like this.
If we have to count the number of slices
that are left in that pizza, we can first start
with every pizza having 10 slices,
so we would set a property on that.
We'd say this.slices is equal to 10.
Now, if we go back here and take a look at that pizza,
take at a look at our Canadian pizza,
there are 10 slices in that pizza.
Now, if I wanted to make a method of that pizza,
say, Canadian pizza.eat,
and then take away one of those slices,
you might think, "Okay, we can do this.
"This.eat is equal to function,"
and we will just assume that somebody eats one slice
at a time, we're not weirdos who double up slices,
and then we will say this.slices
is equal to this.slices
minus one.
Is that gonna work?
And then let's just console log "chomp"
so we know that this is actually running.
So now if I go and try to eat,
I get "chomp," and then if I take a look
at how many slices are in that, you get nine.
If I run it again, we have eight.
If I keep running that now,
let's go ahead and modify this a little bit.
Let's go ahead and modify this to make sure
that they don't run out of slices, so we'll say
if this.slices is greater than zero,
then update the number of slices
and in here we'll console log "chomp".
You now have
this.slices
left.
And then we will say else
console log, "Sorry!
"No slices left!"
Let's go ahead and try do it, Canadian pizza.eat.
Nine, eight, seven, six, five, four, three, two, one,
zero, no slices left, good, okay, so that's working.
Now, this works wonderfully, this works really really well,
however, this is a downside to this,
and that is that we're actually creating this function once
for every single pizza that is made,
and I can show you that by saying
Canadian pizza.eat is equal to a function,
and pepperoni pizza.eat
is equal to a function, but are they the same function?
They're not.
What's happening here is that we're duplicating
the functionality of this function
once for every single pizza, and this functionality
looks exactly the same for every single pizza,
so it doesn't need to have its own code for that.
It does need to have its own toppings,
it does need to have its own customer,
it does need to have its own ID,
and it does need to maintain its own slice count,
but the functionality to eat a piece of pizza
is the same for every single pizza that is out there.
You simply open your mouth and you chew it,
and when there's none left, there's none left.
Instead of putting functions on every single instance,
we can put them on what is referred to as the prototype,
and you might be asking, "Wes, what's the big deal?
"This seems to work fine.
You got your pizzas, it's working."
The problem comes when you have 20,000 pizzas,
you have lots of functions,
you have lots of instances of this pizza,
and every time you define a new function,
that takes up memory in your computer,
and that's what causes computers
and websites to go slow in a lot of cases.
So what we could do is, instead of having
20,000 eat functions, we can have one eat function
that is shared amongst all of our pizzas.
Okay, now let's pause on that for a second
and look at some of the built-in prototypes that we have.
If I have my names array which we've already declared,
and I were to make a new array, maybe called "numbers,"
now we have names and we have numbers.
Two arrays, we get that.
In each of those, names will have methods on them,
like something like filter,
and numbers will also have a filter method.
Now, every single time you make an array,
does the browser copy-paste that functionality
and put it inside of each one?
No, it actually lives in something called the prototype
that allows each of the arrays to share that functionality.
Because if we do this,
numbers.filter is equal to names.filter,
it says "true," they are the exact same function.
They don't just have the same functionality,
they are the same function.
Whereas if we take a look at our pizzas,
pepperoni pizza and Canadian pizza,
those are not the same function.
They looked exactly the same, but we are duplicating
that functionality for every single one,
so what we can do is let's comment this out here.
We'll copy it first, comment it out,
and then go below where your pizza is,
and we are going to make this functionality
exist on the prototype.
So we'll say capital P pizza.prototype.eat
is equal to a function,
and then inside of that, you put all the same functionality.
You have to delete the this.eat function
and then the closing bracket, give it a save,
and remove those extra lines here.
Now what will happen is that every single time
that we make a pizza, we're not going
to give it this function, but it will be available
on the prototype, so here's what's gonna happen.
We'll go here.
Let's test this still works,
so Canadian pizza.eat still works exactly the same.
Pepperoni pizza.eat still works exactly the same.
However, if I were to look at a pepperoni pizza,
you'll see that there's toppings,
customer ID, and slices, those are all,
say it with me, instance properties,
but there is no eat functionality,
and if you open up the prototype,
you'll see (exclaims) there it is.
And this is what is referred to as the prototype lookup.
If you put something on the prototype,
and it doesn't exist on the instance,
it will look for it in the mama,
meaning that if we say pepperoni pizza.toppings,
that's an instance, but if we say eat,
what happens is it will first look inside here
for a property called eat, and if it doesn't find it,
it will go to the mama, which is capital P pizza, and say,
"Hey, someone's looking for an eat function,
"but I don't have one.
"Do you by chance have one on your prototype?"
And the mama will say, "Yes, little one.
"Yes, little instance, I do have an eat function,
"and I will let you use it, it's not yours,
"but I'll let you use it," so that means
that every single time that a pizza is made,
we have access to this eat function
and the benefit to that is that you can actually
change these functions, and they will apply
to every single pizza that is there.
Similarily, lemme show you one more example
with just the number, so if I say pizza.protoype.box
or maybe say .size, and we'll just make that a large.
Now, if we go to our pepperoni pizza,
and we look for the size, it will tell us "large,"
but if I were to go into my pizza
and say this.size is equal to medium,
it will then give us medium.
What it does is it first checks for a property
on the instance, and if doesn't exist,
it will go to the prototype and look that on up.
Let's get rid of the size, we don't actually need that,
(slurs words) a simple little example.
Okay, let's bring this back to strings.
Let's make two strings, so const name's equal to wes,
and if we type name., you're gonna see,
there's all of these methods.
What?
Slice small, (chuckles) small,
it would just wrap it in small tag.
There's some old methods from when JavaScript was created
to do interesting thing, I think there's even a blink.
Is there a blink?
(chuckles) It wraps it in a blink tag.
Don't use those, those are just there
'cause they have always been there,
but you get it, I didn't put that on every single string,
but if we take a look at string.prototype
and open it up, you'll see, these are all of the methods
that we've put on the string prototype,
and every single time that you create
a new string, like this,
we'll say const middle is equal to new string,
slam dunk is my middle name,
now middle is a string.
It looks a little different 'cause we used the new keyword,
but it still has all of the methods
that we are used to, to uppercase,
and that is because all of those methods
are defined on the prototype of string.
And what's neat is that you can actually
modify what are called built-ins,
so these ones that come for free,
to uppercase, to lowercase, blink,
all of those, those are what're referred to as built-ins,
meaning they just come with the language,
and you can actually add your own.
Fair warning, you should never do this,
but I'm just showing you because it is helpful
to see how something works.
If I were to take a string.prototype
.to
uppercase,
and we were to make that a new function,
I'll say function
and let's just return "yelling".
Now if I take name
and I run .to
uppercase, it just returns "yelling".
Why?
Because they went back to the mama string and overwrote
the to uppercase functionality on the prototype.
That means any string, now, when it tries to look up
the method to uppercase, it just does
whatever you have overwritten it.
So you could see why that would be a bad idea
because one person might expect to uppercase
to do something one way, and then if you've changed that,
then libraries on the page that're expecting
to uppercase to work will then break,
so you should never modify built-ins.
Why is that useful, why is that allowed?
For new functionality that is added
to the browser like array includes.
We'll look right here.
You see it?
Array.prototype.includes, why?
Because if we take our names array
and we say includes
wes, it says "true,"
and why is that there?
Because every array has a prototype
that has the includes method on it.
Now, some older browsers don't have the includes.
This is new in the last couple years.
So what about older browsers that don't include it?
There's something called a polyfill that is not
on this page, so we have to look it up.
Array prototype includes polyfill,
and
here we go, how to polyfill for IE,
and you see, if someone says
if the array prototype does not have an includes method,
then
the array prototype includes is simply just
they've recreated the functionality
of array.prototype that includes, and then, bam, your IE8
and IE9
will then have access
to array.prototype includes.
That is what is referred to as polyfilling.
When the browser doesn't include it natively,
you can fill it, polyfill it,
by recreating the functionality in just Vanilla JavaScript.
Looks like index of was not supported in IE8, as well,
so somebody has rewritten the entire functionality
of index of and put it in there.
I don't think very many people
support either of these browsers,
so that's maybe a bad example,
but whenever there's new stuff added to the browser,
you can almost always find a polyfill for it
to support older browsers.
You can also add your own methods.
Again, don't do this, but we could go
to string.prototype
.sarcastic
is equal to function.
Let's actually do this in here
so that all of our strings will have it.
Let's go capital S string.prototype.
sarcastic is equal to a function,
and let's just console log this inside of it.
Now when I take a string,
I say name.sarcastic, see, we just made that,
it will log this, which is a string of wes,
so what we could do is we could say
make sarcastic,
const sarcastic is equal to this.
We gotta split it, this.split, this is very similar
to the one we did in our text generator, .map,
the character and the I,
and then, we'll say
if I
divided by two, so if it's an even,
then return this or a character
to uppercase,
else return
character.to, oh, that's not,
to uppercase, that's what we want.
And then this one is to lowercase,
and then we join that back together and return
sarcastic text.
Does that work?
Let's see.
Oh, I gotta make a name variable first,
so we add a name, now we run, (laughs)
so if I were say 'I love to eat pizza'.sarcastic,
(laughs) it will return it to you.
So you see how, by adding a method to the prototype,
you're probably like, "I get it, Wes, I get it."
Whenever you add a method to the prototype of something,
then that will be available on every instance of,
whether that is something that is built-in,
like a string, don't do this, 'cause you shouldn't
modify built-ins, string, number, Boolean,
don't modify any of those, this is just a simple example,
or your own, like pizza, you can add methods
to the prototype of pizza,
and every single pizza will get it.
(exclaims) Okay.
Let's do one more, let's make a little description method,
so when somebody calls pizza.describe,
I want it to tell you: "this pizza is
"for the customer name with the toppings,
"and there are how many slices left".
Maybe try that on your own.
Pause the video for a second, and go ahead and do it.
So it's like pizza
.protoype
.describe
is equal to a function,
and notice how you can always reference the instance
with the keyword "this," and that's why
the "this" is so important, because the "this"
will always tell you how many slices are left
in the pizza that is being called on
and not the mama pizza.
Pizza prototype describe, we will simply return
a string, say: "this
"pizza is for
"this.customer".
Let's just make sure that works first.
We'll say Canadian pizza.describe.
"This pizza is for Kait Bos," good,
with the toppings,
this.toppings.join
with a comma
and there are
this .slices
left.
Take our Canadian pizza and describe it:
"there are 10 left," good.
Now, if I eat
one, two, three, four, five,
now I'd describe it again, there should be five left.
Now, if I take my pepperoni
that is untouched and describe it,
this should be 10 left.
Good, okay!
You see how we can make functionality on the prototype
that will easily be accessible and easily be used
by every single instance of that.
I think you're probably sick of me by now.
That's it for this one, catch me in the next one
which will be about how do we refactor this into classes.